# KinaseAllosterySCA
SCA for the Eukaryotic Protein Kinases. 


*** Summary:
This analysis accompanies: Pincus D., Pandey J.P, Creixell P.,
Resnekov O., Reynolds K.A. *Evolution and Engineering of Allsoteric
Regulation in Protein Kinases* bioRxiv: https://doi.org/10.1101/189761  


The analysis was performed using the pySCA toolbox (v.6.3) using a
series of shell scripts. This results in a pickle database (*.db)
containing the calculations. This database is loaded into a jupyter
notebook for further analysis and plotting. To run the analysis
completely from scratch, a user will first need to install pySCA
(https://github.com/reynoldsk/pySCA, for docs see:
http://reynoldsk.github.io/pySCA/) Once this is done, the user runs
runAnalysis.sh to reproduce all SCA calculations. The jupyter
notebook (SCAKinaseAnalysis_Kss1ERK.ipynb) also describes how to repeat all
of the calculations (and generate the accompanying figures) from
Pincus et al. Due to some stochasticity in SCA (for example, the
alignment is subsampled for computational efficiency) the results may
vary slightly from run to run.

To ensure exact reproducibility of the results in Pincus et al, we
also provide *.db files (pickle database files) of our calculated
results. These results can be found in Outputs_1703/*. This permits a
user to re-run the analysis in the ipython notebook (and interact
with the data) without installing SCA or running the calculations from scratch
(runAnalysis.sh is not needed in this case). 

If the user wishes to view the results (but not interact
with them/modify plots), we supply an html version of the notebook
(SCAKinaseAnalysis_Kss1ERK.html)

*** Contents:

    Inputs:	Directory containing input alignments for analysis

    LICENSE:	BSD 3-Clause License File

    Matlab_SurfDist: Directory containing Matlab scripts necessary to compute
    surface accessible positions contacting the sector or conserved
    positions. These results are pre-calculated (and can be found in
    RefTxtFiles); the are read in by the jupyter notebook when needed.

    Outputs: Contains the outputs of running the SCA analysis (the
    pickle *.db files). (runAnalysis.sh must be run first, until then
    this is an empty directory)

    Outputs_1703: Contains the outputs from the SCA analysis described
    in Pincus et al. Enables exact reproduction of the results in the paper.

    Plots: Contains plotted outputs of the jupyter notebook. To write
    plots here, you will need to uncomment the plt.savefig() commands
    in the jupyter notebook.

    Pymol: Contains pymol scripts for color coding the ERK2 data on
    the structure (generated by the jupyter notebook)

    README.md: this file

    RefTxtFiles: Assorted text files that record useful indices and
    lists of positions, these are used as inputs for
    SCAKinaseAnalysis_Kss2ERK.ipynb

    Refpos: Lists of reference positions for each kinase. These are
    used to map between homologous positions in the kinase alignment.

    SCAKinaseAnalaysis_Kss1ERK.html: html version of the jupyter
    notebook, for viewing the data in a web browser (without running
    the code)

    SCAKinaseAnalysis_Kss1ERK.ipynb: jupyter notebook, the starting
    place for this analysis

    runAnalysis.sh: a shell script that runs all the SCA calculations
    (for two kinase alignments, and with a range of cutoffs)

    scaMakeATS.py: a script that assists in mapping positions from one
    kinase structure to another homolog (ATS = alignment-to-structure)

    scaTools.py: the sca toolbox, functions from this are used in the
    jupyter notebook

    

    

